
# PIZZA_SALES_DASHBOARD


I created Dashboard for Pizza sales, to determine total orders placed, Revenue generated by pizza category, what kind of Pizza contributing more to the Revenue, percentage of sales by pizza category, sales by pizza size, best and worst performers by involving KPI's, graphs, DAX Functions, Power Query Editor and other features of Power BI.


## Problem Statement

This dashboard helps the Pizza Delivery Shop to understand their customers better. It helps to know if their customers are enjoying their various kinds of pizzas they are making. Through total sales, they get to know their best selling products and worst selling products. It also lets them know the revenue/sales generated by each type of pizza and total quantity that was sold.


### Steps followed 

- Step 1 : Load data into Power BI Desktop, dataset is extracted by connecting to MS SQL Server Management Studio.

- Step 2 : Open power query editor & in view tab under Data preview section, check "column distribution", "column quality" & "column profile" options.

- Step 3 : It was observed that in none of the columns errors & empty values were present.

- Step 4 : Go back to report view and create the measures using DAX Functions -
     
      To generate the revenue from total sales measure the DAX expression we used - 
      Total Revenue = sum(pizza_sales[total_price])

      To generate the total pizzas sold measure the DAX expression we used - 
      Total pizzas sold = sum(pizza_sales[quantity])

      To generate the total orders sold measure the DAX expression we used - 
      Total orders = DISTINCTCOUNT(pizza_sales[order_id])

      To generate the Average order value measure the DAX expression we used - 
      Avg order value = [Total Revenue]/[Total orders]

      To generate the Average pizzas per order sold measure the DAX expression we used - 
      Avg pizzas per order = [Total pizzas sold]/[Total orders]

- Step 5 : In the report view, new card visual was selected to create KPI's using above measures.

- Step 6 : Next use the graphs for visualization of Daily Trend Orders and Monthly Trend Orders and donut charts to represent percentage of sales by pizza category and pizzas size. And also used funnel chart to represent sales by pizza category.

- Step 7 : Later, we added slicer to get visualization of sales and all other parameters based on the pizza category, and other slicer to select the date range, between which range do we need sales data.
 
- Step 8 : Insert the text box to represent the busiest days and sales for easy identification of sales.
  
- Step 9 : Name this page as "HOME" and create other page of dashboard name is as "BEST/WORST SELLERS".

- Step 10 : Using Bar graphs, insert graph visualization of Top 5 and bottom 5 performers based on Revenue, Quantity & Total orders.

- Step 11 : Next insert buttons for easy navigation between "HOME" page and "BEST/WORST SELLERS" page. 

KPI'S:

Total Revenue

Average Order Value

Total Pizzas Sold

Total Orders

Average Pizzas Per Order
